---
subcategory: "AI Models"
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_ai_model_org_rate_limit

`mongodbatlas_ai_model_org_rate_limit` describes the organization-level AI Model Rate Limit for a specific model group.

~> **NOTE:** Organization-level rate limits represent the maximum allowed limits for all projects within the organization. These limits are determined by your organization's tier and cannot be modified. Project-level rate limits can be configured using the `mongodbatlas_ai_model_rate_limit` resource but must not exceed the organization-level limits returned by this data source.

## Example Usages

```terraform
data "mongodbatlas_ai_model_org_rate_limit" "this" {
  org_id           = var.org_id
  model_group_name = "embed_large"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `model_group_name` (String) The name of the model group to be retrieved.
- `org_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the organization that contains your projects.

### Read-Only

- `model_names` (List of String) List of embedding model names included in this model group.
- `requests_per_minute_limit` (Number) The number of requests per minute allowed for this model group. Cannot be less than zero. Cannot be more than the organization level limit for this group model.
- `tokens_per_minute_limit` (Number) The number of tokens per minute allowed for this model group. Cannot be less than zero. Cannot be more than the organization level limit for this group model.

For more information, see [Manage AI Model Rate Limits](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/voyageai/management/rate-limits/).
