# Data Source: mongodbatlas_api_key_project_assignments

`mongodbatlas_api_key_project_assignments` provides a API Key Project Assignments data source. The data source lets you list all API key project assignments for an organization.

## Example Usages

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_api_key" "test" {
	org_id     = var.org_id
	description  = "Test API Key"

	role_names = ["ORG_READ_ONLY"]
}

resource "mongodbatlas_project" "test1" {
	name   = var.project_name
	org_id = var.org_id
}

resource "mongodbatlas_api_key_project_assignment" "test1" {
	project_id  = mongodbatlas_project.test1.id
	api_key_id = mongodbatlas_api_key.test.api_key_id
	role_names  = ["GROUP_OWNER"]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.

### Read-Only

- `results` (Attributes List) List of documents that MongoDB Cloud returns for this request. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results))

<a id="nestedatt--results"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results`

Read-Only:

- `api_key_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies this organization API key that you want to assign to one project.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.
- `roles` (Set of String) Human-readable label that identifies the collection of privileges that MongoDB Cloud grants a specific API key, MongoDB Cloud user, or MongoDB Cloud team. These roles include only the specific project-level roles.

For more information see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Programmatic API Keys Project Assignment](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/group/endpoint-programmatic-api-keys) Documentation.