# Data Source: mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment

`mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment` provides a Cloud User Project Assignment data source. The data source lets you retrieve a user assigned to a project.

-> **NOTE:** Users with pending invitations created using the deprecated `mongodbatlas_project_invitation` resource or via the deprecated [Invite One MongoDB Cloud User to One Project](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-getorganizationuser#tag/Projects/operation/createProjectInvitation)
endpoint are not returned with this resource. See  [MongoDB Atlas API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-getprojectteam) for details.
To manage such users with this resource, refer to our [migration guide]<link-to-migration-guide>.

## Example Usages

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment" "example" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  username   = var.user_email
  roles      = ["GROUP_OWNER", "GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_ADMIN"]
}

data "mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment" "example_username" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  username   = mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment.example.username
}

data "mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment" "example_user_id" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  user_id    = mongodbatlas_cloud_user_project_assignment.example.user_id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-listprojects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.

### Optional

- `user_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `username` (String) Email address that represents the username of the MongoDB Cloud user.

### Read-Only

- `country` (String) Two-character alphabetical string that identifies the MongoDB Cloud user's geographic location. This parameter uses the ISO 3166-1a2 code format.
- `created_at` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud created the current account. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `first_name` (String) First or given name that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `invitation_created_at` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud sent the invitation. MongoDB Cloud represents this timestamp in ISO 8601 format in UTC.
- `invitation_expires_at` (String) Date and time when the invitation from MongoDB Cloud expires. MongoDB Cloud represents this timestamp in ISO 8601 format in UTC.
- `inviter_username` (String) Username of the MongoDB Cloud user who sent the invitation to join the organization.
- `last_auth` (String) Date and time when the current account last authenticated. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `last_name` (String) Last name, family name, or surname that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `mobile_number` (String) Mobile phone number that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `org_membership_status` (String) String enum that indicates whether the MongoDB Cloud user has a pending invitation to join the organization or they are already active in the organization.
- `roles` (Set of String) One or more project-level roles to assign the MongoDB Cloud user.

For more information, see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Cloud Users](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-getprojectuser) Documentation.
