# Data Source: mongodbatlas_database_user

`mongodbatlas_database_user` describes a Database User. This represents a database user which will be applied to all clusters within the project.

Each user has a set of roles that provide access to the project’s databases. User's roles apply to all the clusters in the project: if two clusters have a `products` database and a user has a role granting `read` access on the products database, the user has that access on both clusters.

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find group_id in the official documentation.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_database_user" "test" {
  username           = "test-acc-username"
  password           = "test-acc-password"
  project_id         = "<PROJECT-ID>"
  auth_database_name = "admin"

  roles {
    role_name     = "readWrite"
    database_name = "admin"
  }

  roles {
    role_name     = "atlasAdmin"
    database_name = "admin"
  }

  labels {
    key   = "key 1"
    value = "value 1"
  }
  labels {
    key   = "key 2"
    value = "value 2"
  }
}

data "mongodbatlas_database_user" "test" {
  project_id = mongodbatlas_database_user.test.project_id
  username   = mongodbatlas_database_user.test.username
}
```

**Example of usage with a OIDC federated authentication user**

```
resource "mongodbatlas_database_user" "test" {
  username           = "64d613677e1ad50839cce4db/testUserOrGroup"
  project_id         = "6414908c207f4d22f4d8f232"
  auth_database_name = "admin"
  oidc_auth_type     = "IDP_GROUP"

  roles {
    role_name     = "readWriteAnyDatabase"
    database_name = "admin"
  }
}

data "mongodbatlas_database_user" "test" {
  username           = mongodbatlas_database_user.test.username
  project_id         = "6414908c207f4d22f4d8f232"
  auth_database_name = "admin"
}
```
Note: OIDC support is only avalible starting in [MongoDB 7.0](https://www.mongodb.com/evolved#mdbsevenzero) or later. To learn more, see the [MongoDB Atlas documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security-oidc/).

## Argument Reference

* `username` - (Required) Username for authenticating to MongoDB.
* `project_id` - (Required) The unique ID for the project to create the database user.
* `auth_database_name` - (Required) The user’s authentication database. A user must provide both a username and authentication database to log into MongoDB. In Atlas deployments of MongoDB, the authentication database is almost always the admin database, for X509 it is $external.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this data source.
* `roles` - List of user’s roles and the databases / collections on which the roles apply. A role allows the user to perform particular actions on the specified database. A role on the admin database can include privileges that apply to the other databases as well. See [Roles](#roles) below for more details.
* `x509_type` - X.509 method by which the provided username is authenticated.
* `aws_iam_type` - The new database user authenticates with AWS IAM credentials. Default is `NONE`, `USER` means user has AWS IAM user credentials, `ROLE` - means user has credentials associated with an AWS IAM role.
* `ldap_auth_type` - Method by which the provided username is authenticated. Default is `NONE`. Other valid values are: `USER`, `GROUP`.
* `oidc_auth_type` - (Optional) Human-readable label that indicates whether the new database user authenticates with OIDC (OpenID Connect) federated authentication. If no value is given, Atlas uses the default value of `NONE`. The accepted types are:
  * `NONE` -	The user does not use OIDC federated authentication.
  * `IDP_GROUP` - OIDC Workforce federated authentication group. To learn more about OIDC federated authentication, see [Set up Workforce Identity Federation with OIDC](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security-oidc/).
  * `USER` - OIDC Workload federated authentication user. To learn more about OIDC federated authentication, see [Set up Workload Identity Federation with OIDC](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security-oidc/).
* `scopes` - Array of clusters and Atlas Data Lakes that this user has access to.
    * `name` - Name of the cluster or Atlas Data Lake that the user has access to.
    * `type` - Type of resource that the user has access to. Valid values are: `CLUSTER` and `DATA_LAKE`

### Roles

Block mapping a user's role to a database / collection. A role allows the user to perform particular actions on the specified database. A role on the admin database can include privileges that apply to the other databases as well.

-> **NOTE:** The available privilege actions for custom MongoDB roles support a subset of MongoDB commands. See Unsupported Commands in M10+ Clusters for more information.

~> **IMPORTANT:** If a user is assigned a custom MongoDB role, they cannot be assigned any other roles.

* `name` - Name of the role to grant.
* `database_name` -  Database on which the user has the specified role. A role on the `admin` database can include privileges that apply to the other databases.
* `collection_name` - Collection for which the role applies. You can specify a collection for the `read` and `readWrite` roles. If you do not specify a collection for `read` and `readWrite`, the role applies to all collections in the database (excluding some collections in the `system`. database).

### Labels
Containing key-value pairs that tag and categorize the database user. Each key and value has a maximum length of 255 characters.

* `key` - The key that you want to write.
* `value` - The value that you want to write.

See [MongoDB Atlas API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Database-Users/operation/getDatabaseUser) Documentation for more information.
