# Data Source: mongodbatlas_encryption_at_rest_private_endpoint

`mongodbatlas_encryption_at_rest_private_endpoint` describes a private endpoint used for encryption at rest using customer-managed keys.

~> **IMPORTANT** The Encryption at Rest using Azure Key Vault over Private Endpoints feature is available by request. To request this functionality for your Atlas deployments, contact your Account Manager. 
Additionally, you'll need to set the environment variable `MONGODB_ATLAS_ENABLE_PREVIEW=true` to use this data source. To learn more about existing limitations, see the [Manage Customer Keys with Azure Key Vault Over Private Endpoints](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/azure-kms-over-private-endpoint/#manage-customer-keys-with-azure-key-vault-over-private-endpoints).

## Example Usages

-> **NOTE:** Only Azure Key Vault with Azure Private Link is supported at this time.

```terraform
data "mongodbatlas_encryption_at_rest_private_endpoint" "single" {
  project_id     = var.atlas_project_id
  cloud_provider = "AZURE"
  id             = mongodbatlas_encryption_at_rest_private_endpoint.endpoint.id
}

output "endpoint_connection_name" {
  value = data.mongodbatlas_encryption_at_rest_private_endpoint.single.private_endpoint_connection_name
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cloud_provider` (String) Label that identifies the cloud provider of the private endpoint.
- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the Private Endpoint Service.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project.

### Read-Only

- `error_message` (String) Error message for failures associated with the Encryption At Rest private endpoint.
- `private_endpoint_connection_name` (String) Connection name of the Azure Private Endpoint.
- `region_name` (String) Cloud provider region in which the Encryption At Rest private endpoint is located.
- `status` (String) State of the Encryption At Rest private endpoint.

For more information see: 
- [MongoDB Atlas API - Private Endpoint for Encryption at Rest Using Customer Key Management](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Encryption-at-Rest-using-Customer-Key-Management/operation/getEncryptionAtRestPrivateEndpoint) Documentation.
- [Manage Customer Keys with Azure Key Vault Over Private Endpoints](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/azure-kms-over-private-endpoint/).
