---
subcategory: "Flex Snapshots"
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_flex_snapshots

`mongodbatlas_flex_snapshots` returns all snapshots of a flex cluster.

## Example Usages
```terraform
data "mongodbatlas_flex_snapshot" "snapshot" {
  project_id  = var.project_id
  name        = mongodbatlas_flex_cluster.example-cluster.name
  snapshot_id = var.snapshot_id
}

data "mongodbatlas_flex_snapshots" "snapshots" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  name       = mongodbatlas_flex_cluster.example-cluster.name
}

output "mongodbatlas_flex_snapshot" {
  value = data.mongodbatlas_flex_snapshot.snapshot.name
}

output "mongodbatlas_flex_snapshots" {
  value = [for snapshot in data.mongodbatlas_flex_snapshots.snapshots.results : snapshot.snapshot_id]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the flex cluster whose snapshot you want to restore.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.

### Read-Only

- `results` (Attributes List) List of documents that MongoDB Cloud returns for this request. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results))

<a id="nestedatt--results"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results`

Read-Only:

- `expiration` (String) Date and time when the download link no longer works. This parameter expresses its value in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `finish_time` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud completed writing this snapshot. This parameter expresses its value in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `mongo_db_version` (String) MongoDB host version that the snapshot runs.
- `name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the flex cluster whose snapshot you want to restore.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.
- `scheduled_time` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud will take the snapshot. This parameter expresses its value in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `snapshot_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the snapshot to restore.
- `start_time` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud began taking the snapshot. This parameter expresses its value in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `status` (String) Phase of the restore workflow for this job at the time this resource made this request.

For more information see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Flex Snapshots](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-listflexbackups) Documentation.
