# Data Source: mongodbatlas_network_containers

`mongodbatlas_network_containers` describes all Network Peering Containers. The data source requires your Project ID.

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find **group_id** in the official documentation.


## Example Usage

### Basic Example.

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_network_container" "test" {
  project_id       = "<YOUR-PROJECT-ID>"
  atlas_cidr_block = "10.8.0.0/21"
  provider_name    = "AWS"
  region_name      = "US_EAST_1"
}

data "mongodbatlas_network_containers" "test" {
	project_id     = mongodbatlas_network_container.test.project_id
  provider_name  = mongodbatlas_network_container.test.provider_name //"AWS"
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `project_id` - (Required) The unique ID for the project to create the database user.
* `provider_name` - (Required) Cloud provider for this Network peering container. Accepted values are AWS, GCP, and Azure.



## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this data source.
* `results` - A list where each represents a Network Peering Container.

### Network Peering Container

* `id` - The Network Peering Container ID.
* `atlas_cidr_block` - CIDR block that Atlas uses for your clusters. Atlas uses the specified CIDR block for all other Network Peering connections created in the project. The Atlas CIDR block must be at least a /24 and at most a /21 in one of the following [private networks](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918.html#section-3).
* `provider_name`  - Cloud provider for this Network Peering connection. If omitted, Atlas sets this parameter to AWS.
* `region_name` - The Atlas AWS region name for where this container exists.
* `region` - The Atlas Azure region name for where this container exists.
* `azure_subscription_id` - Unique identifer of the Azure subscription in which the VNet resides.
* `provisioned` - Indicates whether the project has Network Peering connections deployed in the container.
* `gcp_project_id` - Unique identifier of the GCP project in which the Network Peering connection resides.
* `network_name` - Name of the Network Peering connection in the Atlas project.
* `vpc_id` - Unique identifier of the project’s VPC.
* `vnet_name` - 	The name of the Azure VNet. This value is null until you provision an Azure VNet in the container.
* `regions` - Atlas GCP regions where the container resides.


See detailed information for arguments and attributes: [MongoDB API Network Peering Container](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/reference/api/vpc-get-containers-list/)

-> **NOTE:** If you need to get an existing container ID see the [How-To Guide](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/guides/howto-guide.html).