---
subcategory: "Projects"
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_lists

`mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_lists` returns all IP Access List entries for a project. The access list grants access from IPs, CIDRs or AWS Security Groups (if VPC Peering is enabled) to clusters within the Project.

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find `groupId` in the official documentation.

## Example Usage
```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_list" "ip" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  ip_address = "2.3.4.5"
  comment    = "ip address test"
}

resource "mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_list" "cidr" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  cidr_block = "1.2.3.4/32"
  comment    = "cidr block test"
}

data "mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_lists" "this" {
  project_id = var.project_id
  depends_on = [mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_list.ip, mongodbatlas_project_ip_access_list.cidr]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project.

### Read-Only

- `results` (Attributes List) List of returned documents that MongoDB Cloud provides when completing this request. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results))

<a id="nestedatt--results"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results`

Read-Only:

- `aws_security_group` (String) Unique identifier of the AWS security group to add to the access list. Mutually exclusive with `cidr_block` and `ip_address`.
- `cidr_block` (String) Range of IP addresses in CIDR notation to be added to the access list. Mutually exclusive with `aws_security_group` and `ip_address`.
- `comment` (String) Remark that explains the purpose or scope of this IP access list entry.
- `ip_address` (String) Single IP address to be added to the access list. Mutually exclusive with `cidr_block` and `aws_security_group`.

For more information, see [MongoDB Atlas API Reference](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/reference/api/access-lists/).
