# Data Source: mongodbatlas_api_keys

`mongodbatlas_api_keys` describes all API Keys. This represents API Keys that have been created.

~> **IMPORTANT WARNING:** Managing Atlas Programmatic API Keys (PAKs) with Terraform will expose sensitive organizational secrets in Terraform's state. We suggest following [Terraform's best practices](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/sensitive-data). You may also want to consider managing your PAKs via a more secure method, such as the [HashiCorp Vault MongoDB Atlas Secrets Engine](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/mongodbatlas).

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find `groupId` in the official documentation.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "mongodbatlas_project_api_keys" "test" {
  page_num       = 1
  items_per_page = 5
  project_id     = "32b6e34b3d91647abb20e7b8"
}
```

## Argument Reference
* `project_id` - (Required) The unique ID for the project.
* `page_num` - (Optional) The page to return. Defaults to `1`.
* `items_per_page` - (Optional) Number of items to return per page, up to a maximum of 500. Defaults to `100`.


## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this data source.
* `results` - A list where each element represents a API Key assigned to the project.


### API Keys

* `project_id` - Unique identifier for the project whose API keys you want to retrieve. Use the /groups endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.
* `api_key_id` - Unique identifier for the API key you want to update. Use the /orgs/{ORG-ID}/apiKeys endpoint to retrieve all API keys to which the authenticated user has access for the specified organization.
* `description` -	Description of this Project API key.

### project_assignment
List of Project roles that the Programmatic API key needs to have.

* `project_id` -  Project ID to assign to Access Key
* `role_names` -  List of Project roles that the Programmatic API key needs to have. Ensure you provide: at least one role and ensure all roles are valid for the Project. You must specify an array even if you are only associating a single role with the Programmatic API key. The [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/user-roles/#project-roles) describes the valid roles that can be assigned.
 
  
See [MongoDB Atlas API - API Keys](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api/projectApiKeys/get-all-apiKeys-in-one-project/) - Documentation for more information.
