---
subcategory: "Programmatic API Keys"
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_project_api_key

`mongodbatlas_project_api_key` describes a MongoDB Atlas Project API Key. This represents a Project API Key that has been created.

~> **IMPORTANT NOTE** The use of `mongodbatlas_project_api_key` data source is no longer the recommended approach. For new configurations, we recommend using the `mongodbatlas_api_key` resource and the `mongodbatlas_api_key_project_assignment` resource to assign the API Keys to projects. This approach is more flexible and aligns with best practices. For existing configurations, the migration to the new pattern is **not required**. If you want to migrate, see the [Migration Guide](../guides/project-api-key-migration.md) for step-by-step instructions on migrating from `mongodbatlas_project_api_key` to the new pattern.

~> **IMPORTANT WARNING:** Managing Atlas Programmatic API Keys (PAKs) with Terraform will expose sensitive organizational secrets in Terraform's state. We suggest following [Terraform's best practices](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/sensitive-data). You may also want to consider managing your PAKs via a more secure method, such as the [HashiCorp Vault MongoDB Atlas Secrets Engine](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/mongodbatlas).

-> **NOTE:** You may find project_id in the official documentation.

## Example Usage

### Using project_id and api_key_id attribute to query
```terraform

resource "mongodbatlas_project_api_key" "test" {
  description   = "Description of your API key"
  project_assignment {
    project_id = "64259ee860c43338194b0f8e"
    role_names = ["GROUP_READ_ONLY"]
  }
}

data "mongodbatlas_project_api_key" "test" {
  project_id = "64259ee860c43338194b0f8e"
  api_key_id = mongodbatlas_api_key.test.api_key_id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `api_key_id` (String)
- `project_id` (String)

### Read-Only

- `description` (String)
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `private_key` (String)
- `project_assignment` (Set of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--project_assignment))
- `public_key` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--project_assignment"></a>
### Nested Schema for `project_assignment`

Read-Only:

- `project_id` (String)
- `role_names` (Set of String)
