---
subcategory: "Streams"
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_stream_connection_failovers

`mongodbatlas_stream_connection_failovers` describes all failover (regional-alternate) connections configured for an existing stream connection, identified by the parent `connection_name`. Only `Kafka` and `Cluster` connection types support failover.

## Example Usages

```terraform
# Lists all failover connections configured for a given (primary) stream connection.
data "mongodbatlas_stream_connection_failovers" "example" {
  project_id      = var.project_id
  workspace_name  = mongodbatlas_stream_workspace.example.workspace_name
  connection_name = mongodbatlas_stream_connection_failover.example.connection_name
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `connection_name` (String) Label that identifies the stream connection.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.
- `workspace_name` (String) Label that identifies the stream workspace.

### Read-Only

- `results` (Attributes List) List of returned documents that MongoDB Cloud provides when completing this request. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results))

<a id="nestedatt--results"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results`

Read-Only:

- `failover_connection_id` (String) Unique identifier of the connection.
- `name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the stream connection. In the case of the Sample type, this is the name of the sample source.
- `region` (String) The connection's region.
- `state` (String) The state of the connection.
- `type` (String) Type of the connection.

<!-- polymorphic attributes restructured by docpostprocess -->
The following attributes depend on the value of `type`:

#### `Cluster`

- `cluster_name` (String) Name of the cluster configured for this connection.
- `cluster_project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the project that contains the configured cluster. Required if the ID does not match the project containing the streams workspace. You must first enable the organization setting.
- `db_role_to_execute` (Attributes) The name of a Built in or Custom DB Role to connect to an Atlas Cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results--db_role_to_execute))

#### `Kafka`

- `authentication` (Attributes) User credentials required to connect to a Kafka Cluster. Includes the authentication type, as well as the parameters for that authentication mode. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results--authentication))
- `bootstrap_servers` (String) Comma separated list of server addresses.
- `config` (Map of String) A map of Kafka key-value pairs for optional configuration. This is a flat object, and keys can have '.' characters.
- `networking` (Attributes) Networking configuration for Streams connections. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results--networking))
- `security` (Attributes) Properties for the secure transport connection to Kafka. For SSL, this can include the trusted certificate to use. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results--security))

<a id="nestedatt--results--authentication"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results.authentication`

Read-Only:

- `client_id` (String) OIDC client identifier for authentication to the Kafka cluster.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) OIDC client secret for authentication to the Kafka cluster.
- `mechanism` (String) Style of authentication. Can be one of PLAIN, SCRAM-256, SCRAM-512, or OAUTHBEARER.
- `method` (String) SASL OAUTHBEARER authentication method. Can only be OIDC currently.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password of the account to connect to the Kafka cluster.
- `sasl_oauthbearer_extensions` (String) SASL OAUTHBEARER extensions parameter for additional OAuth2 configuration.
- `scope` (String) OIDC scope parameter defining the access permissions requested.
- `ssl_certificate` (String) SSL certificate for client authentication to Kafka.
- `ssl_key` (String) SSL key for client authentication to Kafka.
- `ssl_key_password` (String) Password for the SSL key, if it is password protected.
- `token_endpoint_url` (String) OIDC token endpoint URL for obtaining access tokens.
- `username` (String) Username of the account to connect to the Kafka cluster.


<a id="nestedatt--results--db_role_to_execute"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results.db_role_to_execute`

Read-Only:

- `role` (String) The name of the role to use. Can be a built in role or a custom role.
- `type` (String) Type of the DB role. Can be either Built In or Custom.


<a id="nestedatt--results--networking"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results.networking`

Read-Only:

- `access` (Attributes) Information about networking access. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results--networking--access))

<a id="nestedatt--results--networking--access"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results.networking.access`

Read-Only:

- `connection_id` (String) Reserved. Will be used by `PRIVATE_LINK` connection type.
- `name` (String) Reserved. Will be used by `PRIVATE_LINK` connection type.
- `tgw_route_id` (String) Reserved. Will be used by `TRANSIT_GATEWAY` connection type.
- `type` (String) Selected networking type. Either `PUBLIC`, `VPC`, `PRIVATE_LINK`, or `TRANSIT_GATEWAY`. Defaults to `PUBLIC`. For VPC, ensure that VPC peering exists and connectivity has been established between Atlas VPC and the VPC where Kafka cluster is hosted for the connection to function properly. `TRANSIT_GATEWAY` support is coming soon.



<a id="nestedatt--results--security"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results.security`

Read-Only:

- `broker_public_certificate` (String) A trusted, public x509 certificate for connecting to Kafka over SSL.
- `protocol` (String) Describes the transport type. Can be either `SASL_PLAINTEXT`, `SASL_SSL`, or `SSL`.

For more information see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Streams Failover Connection](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/group/endpoint-streams) Documentation.
