---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "mongodbatlas_stream_processors Data Source - terraform-provider-mongodbatlas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# mongodbatlas_stream_processors (Data Source)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `instance_name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the stream instance.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.

### Read-Only

- `results` (Attributes List) Returns all Stream Processors within the specified stream instance.

To use this resource, the requesting API Key must have the Project Owner

role or Project Stream Processing Owner role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--results))

<a id="nestedatt--results"></a>
### Nested Schema for `results`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal character string that identifies the stream processor.
- `instance_name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the stream instance.
- `pipeline` (String) Stream aggregation pipeline you want to apply to your streaming data.
- `processor_name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the stream processor.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.
- `state` (String) The state of the stream processor.
- `stats` (String) The stats associated with the stream processor.
