---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: api_keys"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-api-keys"
description: |-
    Describes a API Keys.
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_api_keys

`mongodbatlas_api_keys` describe all API Keys. This represents API Keys that have been created.

~> **IMPORTANT WARNING:** Managing Atlas Programmatic API Keys (PAKs) with Terraform will expose sensitive organizational secrets in Terraform's state. We suggest following [Terraform's best practices](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/sensitive-data). You may also want to consider managing your PAKs via a more secure method, such as the [HashiCorp Vault MongoDB Atlas Secrets Engine](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/mongodbatlas).

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find `groupId` in the official documentation.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_api_key" "test" {
  description   = "key-name"
  org_id        = "<ORG_ID>"
  role_names = ["ORG_READ_ONLY"]
  }
}

data "mongodbatlas_api_keys" "test" {
  org_id = "<ORG_ID>"
  page_num = 1
  items_per_page = 5
}
```

## Argument Reference
* `org_id` - (Required) Unique identifier for the organization whose API keys you want to retrieve.
* `page_num` - (Optional) The page to return. Defaults to `1`.
* `items_per_page` - (Optional) Number of items to return per page, up to a maximum of 500. Defaults to `100`.

* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this data source.
* `results` - A list where each represents a List of API Keys.


### API Keys

* `org_id` - Unique identifier for the organization whose API keys you want to retrieve. Use the /orgs endpoint to retrieve all organizations to which the authenticated user has access.
* `api_key_id` - Unique identifier for the API key you want to update. Use the /orgs/{ORG-ID}/apiKeys endpoint to retrieve all API keys to which the authenticated user has access for the specified organization.
* `description` -	Description of this Organization API key.
* `role_names` - Name of the role. This resource returns all the roles the user has in Atlas.

The following are valid roles:
  * `ORG_OWNER`
  * `ORG_GROUP_CREATOR`
  * `ORG_BILLING_ADMIN`
  * `ORG_READ_ONLY`
  * `ORG_MEMBER`
  
See [MongoDB Atlas API - Return All Organization API Keys](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Programmatic-API-Keys/operation/listApiKeys) - Documentation for more information.
