---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: online_archives"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-datasource-online-archives"
description: |-
    Describes the list of all the online archives for a cluster
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_online_archive

`mongodbatlas_online_archive` Describes the list of all the online archives for a cluster

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find group_id in the official documentation.


## Example Usage

```terraform 
data "mongodbatlas_online_archives" "test" {
    project_id   = var.project_id
    cluster_name = var.cluster_name
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `project_id`    - (Required) The unique ID for the project.
* `cluster_name`  - (Required) Name of the cluster that contains the collection.

# Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this data source.
* `results` - A list where each represents an online archive

# Online Archive
## Attributes reference
* `db_name`          -  Name of the database that contains the collection.
* `coll_name`        -  Name of the collection.
* `collection_type`  -  Classification of MongoDB database collection that you want to return, "TIMESERIES" or "STANDARD". Default is "STANDARD". 
* `state`    - Status of the online archive. Valid values are: Pending, Archiving, Idle, Pausing, Paused, Orphaned and Deleted

### Criteria
* `type`          - Type of criteria (DATE, CUSTOM)
* `date_field`    - Name of an already indexed date field from the documents. Data is archived when the current date is greater than the value of the date field specified here plus the number of days specified via the `expire_after_days` parameter.
* `date_format`   - the date format. Valid values:  ISODATE (default), EPOCH_SECONDS, EPOCH_MILLIS, EPOCH_NANOSECONDS
* `expire_after_days` - Number of days that specifies the age limit for the data in the live Atlas cluster. Data is archived when the current date is greater than the value of the date field specified via the `date_field` parameter plus the number of days specified here.
* `query` - JSON query to use to select documents for archiving. Atlas uses the specified query with the db.collection.find(query) command. The empty document {} to return all documents is not supported.

### Schedule

* `type`          - Type of schedule (`DEFAULT`, `DAILY`, `MONTHLY`, `WEEKLY`).
* `start_hour`    - Hour of the day when the when the scheduled window to run one online archive starts.  
* `end_hour`      - Hour of the day when the scheduled window to run one online archive ends.
* `start_minute`   - Minute of the hour when the scheduled window to run one online archive starts.
* `end_minute`     - Minute of the hour when the scheduled window to run one online archive ends.
* `day_of_month`   - Day of the month when the scheduled archive starts.
* `day_of_week`     - Day of the week when the scheduled archive starts. The week starts with Monday (1) and ends with Sunday (7).

### Partition
* `field_name` - Name of the field. To specify a nested field, use the dot notation.
* `order` - Position of the field in the partition. Value can be: 0,1,2
By default, the date field specified in the criteria.dateField parameter is in the first position of the partition.
* `field_type` - (Optional) type of the partition field