---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: project_invitation"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-datasource-project-invitation"
description: |-
  Provides an Atlas project invitation.
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_project_invitation

`mongodbatlas_project_invitation` describes an invitation to a user to join an Atlas project.

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find GROUP-ID in the official documentation.

## Example Usages

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_project_invitation" "test" {
  username    = "test-acc-username"
  project_id  = "<PROJECT-ID>"
  roles       = [ "GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE" ]
}

data "mongodbatlas_project_invitation" "test" {
  project_id = mongodbatlas_project_invitation.test.project_id
  username   = mongodbatlas_project_invitation.test.username
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `project_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the project to which you invited the user.
* `username` - (Required) Email address of the invited user. This is the address to which Atlas sends the invite. If the user accepts the invitation, they log in to Atlas with this username.
* `invitation_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the invitation in Atlas.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments, this data source exports the following attributes:

* `id` - Autogenerated unique string that identifies this data source.
* `created_at` - Timestamp in ISO 8601 date and time format in UTC when Atlas sent the invitation.
* `expires_at` - Timestamp in ISO 8601 date and time format in UTC when the invitation expires. Users have 30 days to accept an invitation.
* `inviter_username` - Atlas user who invited `username` to the project.
* `roles` - Atlas roles to assign to the invited user. If the user accepts the invitation, Atlas assigns these roles to them. Refer to the [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/user-roles/#project-roles) for information on valid roles.

See the [MongoDB Atlas Administration API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Projects/operation/createProjectInvitation) documentation for more information.