---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: projects"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-projects"
description: |-
    Describes a Projects.
---

# Data Source: mongodbatlas_projects

`mongodbatlas_projects` describe all Projects. This represents projects that have been created.

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find `groupId` in the official documentation.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_project" "test" {
  name   = "project-name"
  org_id = "<ORG_ID>"

  teams {
    team_id    = "5e0fa8c99ccf641c722fe645"
    role_names = ["GROUP_OWNER"]

  }
  teams {
    team_id    = "5e1dd7b4f2a30ba80a70cd4rw"
    role_names = ["GROUP_READ_ONLY", "GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE"]
  }
  api_keys {
    api_key_id = "61003b299dda8d54a9d7d10c"
    role_names = ["GROUP_READ_ONLY"]
  }
}

data "mongodbatlas_projects" "test" {
  page_num = 1
  items_per_page = 5
}
```

## Argument Reference
* `page_num` - (Optional)  	The page to return. Defaults to `1`.
* `items_per_page` - (Optional) Number of items to return per page, up to a maximum of 500. Defaults to `100`.


* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this data source.
* `total_count` - Represents the total of the projects

* `results` - A list where each represents a Projects.


### Project

* `name` - The name of the project you want to create. (Cannot be changed via this Provider after creation.)
* `org_id` - The ID of the organization you want to create the project within.
*`cluster_count` - The number of Atlas clusters deployed in the project.
*`created` - The ISO-8601-formatted timestamp of when Atlas created the project.
* `teams.#.team_id` - The unique identifier of the team you want to associate with the project. The team and project must share the same parent organization.
* `teams.#.role_names` - Each string in the array represents a project role assigned to the team. Every user associated with the team inherits these roles.
The following are valid roles:
  * `GROUP_OWNER`
  * `GROUP_READ_ONLY`
  * `GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_ADMIN`
  * `GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE`
  * `GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_ONLY`
  * `GROUP_CLUSTER_MANAGER`
* `api_keys.#.api_key_id` - The unique identifier of the Organization Programmatic API key assigned to the Project. 
* `api_keys.#.role_names` -  List of roles that the Organization Programmatic API key has been assigned. 
The following are valid roles:
  * `GROUP_OWNER`
  * `GROUP_READ_ONLY`
  * `GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_ADMIN`
  * `GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE`
  * `GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_ONLY`
  * `GROUP_CLUSTER_MANAGER`

* `is_collect_database_specifics_statistics_enabled` - Flag that indicates whether to enable statistics in [cluster metrics](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/monitor-cluster-metrics/) collection for the project.
* `is_data_explorer_enabled` - Flag that indicates whether to enable Data Explorer for the project. If enabled, you can query your database with an easy to use interface.
* `is_performance_advisor_enabled` - Flag that indicates whether to enable Performance Advisor and Profiler for the project. If enabled, you can analyze database logs to recommend performance improvements.
* `is_realtime_performance_panel_enabled` - Flag that indicates whether to enable Real Time Performance Panel for the project. If enabled, you can see real time metrics from your MongoDB database.
* `is_schema_advisor_enabled` - Flag that indicates whether to enable Schema Advisor for the project. If enabled, you receive customized recommendations to optimize your data model and enhance performance. Disable this setting to disable schema suggestions in the [Performance Advisor](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/performance-advisor/#std-label-performance-advisor) and the [Data Explorer](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-ui/#std-label-atlas-ui).
* `region_usage_restrictions` - If GOV_REGIONS_ONLY the project can be used for government regions only, otherwise defaults to standard regions. For more information see [MongoDB Atlas for Government](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/government/api/#creating-a-project).
  
See [MongoDB Atlas API - Projects](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/reference/api/project-get-all/) - [and MongoDB Atlas API - Teams](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/reference/api/project-get-teams/) Documentation for more information.
