---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: org_invitation"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-resource-organization-invitation"
description: |-
    Provides an Atlas Organization Invitation resource.
---

# Resource: mongodbatlas_org_invitation

`mongodbatlas_org_invitation` invites a user to join an Atlas organization.

Each invitation for an Atlas user includes roles that Atlas grants the user when they accept the invitation.

The [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/user-roles/#organization-roles) describes the roles a user can have.

~> **IMPORTANT:** This resource is only for managing invitations, not for managing the Atlas User being invited. Possible provider behavior depending on the invitee's action:
* If the user has not yet accepted the invitation, the provider leaves the invitation as is.
* If the user has accepted the invitation and is now an organization member, the provider will remove the invitation from the Terraform state.  The invitation must then be removed from the Terraform resource configuration.
* If the user accepts the invitation and then leaves the organization, the provider will re-add the invitation if the resource definition is not removed from the Terraform configuration.

## Example Usages

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_org_invitation" "test0" {
  username    = "test0-acc-username"
  org_id      = "<ORG-ID>"
  roles       = [ "ORG_OWNER" ]
}
```

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_org_invitation" "test0" {
  username    = "test0-acc-username"
  org_id      = "<ORG-ID>"
  roles       = [ "ORG_MEMBER", "ORG_BILLING_ADMIN" ]
}
```

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_org_invitation" "test1" {
  username    = "test1-acc-username"
  org_id      = "<ORG-ID>"
  teams_ids   = [ "<TEAM-0-ID>", "<TEAM-1-ID>" ]
  roles       = [ "ORG_MEMBER" ]
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `org_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the organization to which you want to invite a user.
* `username` - (Required) Email address of the invited user. This is the address to which Atlas sends the invite. If the user accepts the invitation, they log in to Atlas with this username.
* `teams_ids` - (Optional) An array of unique 24-hexadecimal digit strings that identify the teams that the user was invited to join.
* `roles` - (Required) Atlas roles to assign to the invited user. If the user accepts the invitation, Atlas assigns these roles to them. The [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/user-roles/#organization-roles) describes the roles a user can have.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments, this resource exports the following attributes:

* `id` - Autogenerated unique string that identifies this resource.
* `created_at` - Timestamp in ISO 8601 date and time format in UTC when Atlas sent the invitation.
* `expires_at` - Timestamp in ISO 8601 date and time format in UTC when the invitation expires. Users have 30 days to accept an invitation.
* `invitation_id` - Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the invitation in Atlas.
* `inviter_username` - Atlas user who invited `username` to the organization.

## Import

~> **IMPORTANT:**
An organization invitation can **not** be imported once it has been accepted.

Import a user's invitation to an organization by separating the `org_id` and the `username` with a hyphen:


```
$ terraform import mongodbatlas_org_invitation.my_user 1112222b3bf99403840e8934-my_user@mongodb.com
```
