---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: project_invitation"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-resource-project-invitation"
description: |-
    Provides an Atlas Project Invitation resource.
---

# mongodbatlas_project_invitation

`mongodbatlas_project_invitation` invites a user to join an Atlas project.

Each Invitation for an Atlas User has a set of roles that provide access to a Project in an Organization.

The roles that can be utilised can be found in the [MongoDB Documentation](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/reference/user-roles/#project-roles), which map to:

* GROUP_OWNER
* GROUP_CLUSTER_MANAGER
* GROUP_READ_ONLY
* GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_ADMIN
* GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE
* GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_ONLY

-> **NOTE:** Groups and projects are synonymous terms. You may find GROUP-ID in the official documentation.

## Example Usages

```hcl
resource "mongodbatlas_project_invitation" "test" {
  username    = "test-acc-username"
  project_id  = "<PROJECT-ID>"
  roles       = [ "GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE" ]
}
```

```hcl
resource "mongodbatlas_project_invitation" "test" {
  username    = "test-acc-username"
  project_id  = "<PROJECT-ID>"
  roles       = [ "GROUP_READ_ONLY", "GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_ONLY" ]
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `project_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the project to which you want to invite a user.
* `username` - (Required) Email address to which Atlas sent the invitation. The user uses this email address as their Atlas username if they accept this invitation.
* `roles` - (Required) List of Atlas roles to assign to the invited user. If the user accepts the invitation, Atlas assigns these roles to them. Atlas accepts the following roles:
  * GROUP_OWNER
  * GROUP_CLUSTER_MANAGER
  * GROUP_READ_ONLY
  * GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_ADMIN
  * GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_WRITE
  * GROUP_DATA_ACCESS_READ_ONLY

## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `id` - Autogenerated Unique ID for this resource.
* `created_at` - Timestamp in ISO 8601 date and time format in UTC when Atlas sent the invitation.
* `expires_at` - Timestamp in ISO 8601 date and time format in UTC when the invitation expires. Users have 30 days to accept an invitation.
* `invitation_id` - Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the invitation in Atlas.
* `inviter_username` - Atlas user who invited `username` to the project.

## Import

Import a user's invitation to a project by separating the `project_id` and the `username` with a hyphen:

```
$ terraform import mongodbatlas_project_invitation.my_user 1112222b3bf99403840e8934-my_user@mongodb.com
```
