---
page_title: "Upgrade Guide 1.18.0"
---

# MongoDB Atlas Provider 1.18.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

***WARNING:*** For users using the `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` resource or data sources, and defining multi sharded clusters, this new version impacts the possibility of editing the definition of these clusters from the Atlas UI. This impact is limited to the first weeks of September 2024.

The Terraform MongoDB Atlas Provider version 1.18.0 has a number of new and exciting features.

**New Resources, Data Sources, and Features:**

- You can now scale the instance size and disk IOPS independently for each individual shard for sharded and geo-sharded clusters defined with `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`. To learn more, see the [Advanced Cluster New Sharding Configurations Migration Guide](advanced-cluster-new-sharding-schema). As part of these changes two new attributes are added:
    - Use the `replication_specs.*.zone_id` attribute in the `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` resource and data sources to identify the zone of each `replication_specs` object.
  - Use the `use_replication_spec_per_shard` attribute in the `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` data sources to specify whether to obtain `replication_specs` objects for each shard.

- The cloud backup schedule for a cluster can now be used to configure copy settings by zone instead of replication object in each zone with the `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` resource and data sources.  This feature also enables you to reference cluster zones using independent shard scaling, which no longer supports `replication_spec.*.id`.
  - `copy_settings.*.zone_id`: Users should update their configurations to use this attribute instead of `copy_settings.*.replication_spec_id`. To learn more, [see below](#transition-cloud-backup-schedules-for-clusters-to-use-zones).

**Deprecations and removals:**

- Deprecations in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` resource and data sources:
  - `replication_specs.*.num_shards`: The `replication_specs` list now supports defining an object for each inidividual shard. Use this new schema instead of the `num_shards` attribute. To learn more, see the [Migration Guide](advanced-cluster-new-sharding-schema).
    - `disk_size_gb`: The same attribute is now defined under `replication_specs.*.region_configs.*.(electable_specs|analytics_specs|read_only_specs).disk_size_gb`. Replacing this value doesn't affect the underlying cluster. This change in the value's location aligns this value with the updated API schema and allows for future independent storage size scaling.
    - `replication_specs.*.id`: This attribute was previously used by `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` resource to identify cluster zones. As of 1.18.0, `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` resource can reference cluster zones using the new `zone_id` attribute.
    - `advanced_configuration.default_read_concern`: MongoDB 5.0 and later clusters default to `local`. To use a custom read concern level, please refer to your driver documentation.
    - `advanced_configuration.fail_index_key_too_long`: This attribute only applies to older versions of MongoDB (removed in 4.4).

- Deprecations in `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` resource and data source:
  - `copy_settings.*.replication_spec_id`: Users should use `copy_settings.#.zone_id` instead. This also enables you to reference cluster zones using independent shard scaling, which no longer supports `replication_spec.*.id`.
    - In `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` data source, users will also need to set `use_zone_id_for_copy_settings = true` to allow the data source to use the latest schema that populates `copy_settings.#.zone_id` instead of the deprecated `copy_settings.#.replication_spec_id`. 


- Attribute `scheme` removed from `mongodbatlas_third_party_integration` resource and data sources.
- Attributes `page_num` and `items_per_page` removed from `federated_settings_identity_providers` data source.
- Attribute `id` changed from optional to computed only in `mongodbatlas_cloud_backupsnapshot_export_bucket` data source.
- Attribute `id` changed from optional to computed only in `mongodbatlas_cloud_backupsnapshot_export_job` data source.
- Attribute `created_at` removed from `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_snapshot_restore_job` resource and data sources.
- Attribute `job_id` removed from `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_snapshot_restore_job`  in favour of `snapshot_restore_job_id`.
- Attribute `endpoints.*.service_attachment_name` removed from `mongodbatlas_privatelink_endpoint_service` resource and data source.


## Transition Cloud Backup Schedules for Clusters to use zones

### Update `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` resource:

**Step 1:** Update `copy_settings` in your Terraform configuration and replace usage of `replication_spec_id` with `zone_id`.  To find appropriate value for `zone_id`, you can consult the replicationSpecs array returned from [Return One Multi-Cloud Cluster in One Project](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Clusters/operation/getCluster). Alternately, use `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` data source or resource and reference `replication_specs.#.zone_id`.

#### Example 1: Old configuration (`mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule`)
```
resource "mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule" "test" {
  project_id   = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.my_cluster.project_id
  cluster_name = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.my_cluster.name

  # other attributes...

  copy_settings {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    frequencies = ["HOURLY",
		   "DAILY",
		   "WEEKLY"]
    region_name = "US_EAST_1"
    replication_spec_id = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.my_cluster.replication_specs.*.id[0]  # replace with zone_id
    should_copy_oplogs = false
  }
}
```

#### Example 2: Updated configuration (`mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule`)
```
resource "mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule" "test" {
  project_id   = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.my_cluster.project_id
  cluster_name = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.my_cluster.name

  # other attributes...

  copy_settings {
    cloud_provider = "AWS"
    frequencies = ["HOURLY",
		   "DAILY",
		   "WEEKLY"]
    region_name = "US_EAST_1"
    zone_id = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.my_cluster.replication_specs.*.zone_id[0]
    should_copy_oplogs = false
  }
}
```


**Step 2:** In the terminal, run `terraform plan`. You should see a plan generated with an "update in-place" for the `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` resource proposing to add the `zone_id` under `copy_settings` as expected.

**Step 3:** Run `terraform apply`.

### Update `mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule` data source:

**Step 1:** Add argument `use_zone_id_for_copy_settings = true` to the data source (with this change the data source will no longer populate `copy_settings.#.replication_spec_id`). The resulting data source should look like below:

```
data "mongodbatlas_cloud_backup_schedule" "test" {
  project_id   = var.project_id
  cluster_name = var.cluster_name
  use_zone_id_for_copy_settings = true
}
```

**Step 2:** Replace any references to `copy_settings.#.replication_spec_id` in your configurations with `copy_settings.#.zone_id`.

**Step 3:** Run `terraform plan` followed by `terraform apply`.


### Helpful Links

* [Report bugs](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/issues)

* [Request Features](https://feedback.mongodb.com/forums/924145-atlas?category_id=370723)

* [Contact Support](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/support/) covered by MongoDB Atlas support plans, Developer and above.
