---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "mongodbatlas Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# mongodbatlas Provider





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `assume_role` (Block List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--assume_role))
- `aws_access_key_id` (String) AWS API Access Key.
- `aws_secret_access_key` (String) AWS API Access Secret Key.
- `aws_session_token` (String) AWS Security Token Service provided session token.
- `base_url` (String) MongoDB Atlas Base URL
- `is_mongodbgov_cloud` (Boolean) MongoDB Atlas Base URL default to gov
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) MongoDB Atlas Programmatic Private Key
- `public_key` (String) MongoDB Atlas Programmatic Public Key
- `realm_base_url` (String) MongoDB Realm Base URL
- `region` (String) Region where secret is stored as part of AWS Secret Manager.
- `secret_name` (String) Name of secret stored in AWS Secret Manager.
- `sts_endpoint` (String) AWS Security Token Service endpoint. Required for cross-AWS region or cross-AWS account secrets.

<a id="nestedblock--assume_role"></a>
### Nested Schema for `assume_role`

Optional:

- `duration` (String) The duration, between 15 minutes and 12 hours, of the role session. Valid time units are ns, us (or µs), ms, s, h, or m.
- `duration_seconds` (Number, Deprecated) The duration, in seconds, of the role session.
- `external_id` (String) A unique identifier that might be required when you assume a role in another account.
- `policy` (String) IAM Policy JSON describing further restricting permissions for the IAM Role being assumed.
- `policy_arns` (Set of String) Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) of IAM Policies describing further restricting permissions for the IAM Role being assumed.
- `role_arn` (String) Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of an IAM Role to assume prior to making API calls.
- `session_name` (String) An identifier for the assumed role session.
- `source_identity` (String) Source identity specified by the principal assuming the role.
- `tags` (Map of String) Assume role session tags.
- `transitive_tag_keys` (Set of String) Assume role session tag keys to pass to any subsequent sessions.
