---
subcategory: "MongoDB Cloud Users"
---

# Resource: mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment

`mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment` provides a Cloud User Team Assignment resource. It lets you manage the association between a cloud user and a team, enabling you to import, assign, remove, or update the user's membership.

-> **NOTE**Users with pending invitations created using the deprecated `mongodbatlas_project_invitation` resource or via the deprecated [Invite One MongoDB Cloud User to One Project](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-getorganizationuser#tag/Projects/operation/createProjectInvitation)
endpoint cannot be managed with this resource. See [MongoDB Atlas API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-listteamusers) for details.
To manage such users with this resource, refer to our [migration guide]<link-to-migration-guide>.

## Example Usages

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment" "example" {
  org_id  = var.org_id
  team_id = var.team_id
  user_id = var.user_id
}

data "mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment" "example_user_id" {
  org_id  = var.org_id
  team_id = var.team_id
  user_id = mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment.example.user_id
}

data "mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment" "example_username" {
  org_id   = var.org_id
  team_id  = var.team_id
  username = mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment.example.username
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `org_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the organization that contains your projects. Use the [/orgs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/group/endpoint-organizations) endpoint to retrieve all organizations to which the authenticated user has access.
- `team_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the team to which you want to assign the MongoDB Cloud user. Use the [/teams](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/group/endpoint-teams) endpoint to retrieve all teams to which the authenticated user has access.
- `user_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the MongoDB Cloud user.

### Read-Only

- `country` (String) Two-character alphabetical string that identifies the MongoDB Cloud user's geographic location. This parameter uses the ISO 3166-1a2 code format.
- `created_at` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud created the current account. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `first_name` (String) First or given name that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `invitation_created_at` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud sent the invitation. MongoDB Cloud represents this timestamp in ISO 8601 format in UTC.
- `invitation_expires_at` (String) Date and time when the invitation from MongoDB Cloud expires. MongoDB Cloud represents this timestamp in ISO 8601 format in UTC.
- `inviter_username` (String) Username of the MongoDB Cloud user who sent the invitation to join the organization.
- `last_auth` (String) Date and time when the current account last authenticated. This value is in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `last_name` (String) Last name, family name, or surname that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `mobile_number` (String) Mobile phone number that belongs to the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `org_membership_status` (String) String enum that indicates whether the MongoDB Cloud user has a pending invitation to join the organization or they are already active in the organization.
- `roles` (Attributes) Organization and project level roles to assign the MongoDB Cloud user within one organization. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--roles))
- `team_ids` (Set of String) List of unique 24-hexadecimal digit strings that identifies the teams to which this MongoDB Cloud user belongs.
- `username` (String) Email address that represents the username of the MongoDB Cloud user.

<a id="nestedatt--roles"></a>
### Nested Schema for `roles`

Read-Only:

- `org_roles` (Set of String) One or more organization level roles to assign the MongoDB Cloud user.
- `project_role_assignments` (Attributes Set) List of project level role assignments to assign the MongoDB Cloud user. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--roles--project_role_assignments))

<a id="nestedatt--roles--project_role_assignments"></a>
### Nested Schema for `roles.project_role_assignments`

Read-Only:

- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the project to which these roles belong.
- `project_roles` (Set of String) One or more project-level roles assigned to the MongoDB Cloud user.

## Import

Cloud User Team Assignment resource can be imported using the Org ID & Team ID & User ID OR Org ID & Team ID & Username, in the format `ORG_ID/TEAM_ID/USER_ID` OR `ORG_ID/TEAM_ID/USERNAME`.

```
$ terraform import mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment.test 63cfbf302333a3011d98592e/9f3c1e7a4d8b2f6051acde47/5f18367ccb7a503a2b481b7a
OR
$ terraform import mongodbatlas_cloud_user_team_assignment.test 63cfbf302333a3011d98592e/9f3c1e7a4d8b2f6051acde47/test-user@example.com
```

For more information see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Cloud Users](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/api/doc/atlas-admin-api-v2/operation/operation-addusertoteam) Documentation.
