# Resource: mongodbatlas_project_api

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Human-readable label that identifies the project included in the MongoDB Cloud organization.
- `org_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the MongoDB Cloud organization to which the project belongs.

### Optional

- `region_usage_restrictions` (String) Applies to Atlas for Government only.

In Commercial Atlas, this field will be rejected in requests and missing in responses.

This field sets restrictions on available regions in the project.

`COMMERCIAL_FEDRAMP_REGIONS_ONLY`: Only allows deployments in FedRAMP Moderate regions.

`GOV_REGIONS_ONLY`: Only allows deployments in GovCloud regions.
- `tags` (Attributes List) List that contains key-value pairs between 1 to 255 characters in length for tagging and categorizing the project. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tags))
- `with_default_alerts_settings` (Boolean) Flag that indicates whether to create the project with default alert settings.

### Read-Only

- `cluster_count` (Number) Quantity of MongoDB Cloud clusters deployed in this project.
- `created` (String) Date and time when MongoDB Cloud created this project. This parameter expresses its value in the ISO 8601 timestamp format in UTC.
- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the MongoDB Cloud project.
- `links` (Attributes List) List of one or more Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) that point to API sub-resources, related API resources, or both. RFC 5988 outlines these relationships. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--links))

<a id="nestedatt--tags"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tags`

Required:

- `key` (String) Constant that defines the set of the tag. For example, `environment` in the `environment : production` tag.
- `value` (String) Variable that belongs to the set of the tag. For example, `production` in the `environment : production` tag.


<a id="nestedatt--links"></a>
### Nested Schema for `links`

Read-Only:

- `href` (String) Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that points another API resource to which this response has some relationship. This URL often begins with `https://cloud.mongodb.com/api/atlas`.
- `rel` (String) Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that defines the semantic relationship between this resource and another API resource. This URL often begins with `https://cloud.mongodb.com/api/atlas`.
