# Resource: mongodbatlas_push_based_log_export_api

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `bucket_name` (String) The name of the bucket to which the agent will send the logs to.
- `group_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project. Use the [/groups](#tag/Projects/operation/listProjects) endpoint to retrieve all projects to which the authenticated user has access.

**NOTE**: Groups and projects are synonymous terms. Your group id is the same as your project id. For existing groups, your group/project id remains the same. The resource and corresponding endpoints use the term groups.
- `iam_role_id` (String) ID of the AWS IAM role that will be used to write to the S3 bucket.
- `prefix_path` (String) S3 directory in which vector will write to in order to store the logs. An empty string denotes the root directory.

### Read-Only

- `create_date` (String) Date and time that this feature was enabled on.
- `links` (Attributes List) List of one or more Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) that point to API sub-resources, related API resources, or both. RFC 5988 outlines these relationships. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--links))
- `state` (String) Describes whether or not the feature is enabled and what status it is in.

<a id="nestedatt--links"></a>
### Nested Schema for `links`

Read-Only:

- `href` (String) Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that points another API resource to which this response has some relationship. This URL often begins with `https://cloud.mongodb.com/api/atlas`.
- `rel` (String) Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that defines the semantic relationship between this resource and another API resource. This URL often begins with `https://cloud.mongodb.com/api/atlas`.
