# Resource: mongodbatlas_resource_policy_api

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Human-readable label that describes the atlas resource policy.
- `org_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the organization that contains your projects. Use the [/orgs](#tag/Organizations/operation/listOrganizations) endpoint to retrieve all organizations to which the authenticated user has access.
- `policies` (Attributes List) List of policies that make up the atlas resource policy. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policies))

### Optional

- `description` (String) Description of the atlas resource policy.

### Read-Only

- `created_by_user` (Attributes) The user that last updated the atlas resource policy. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--created_by_user))
- `created_date` (String) Date and time in UTC when the atlas resource policy was created.
- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal character string that identifies the atlas resource policy.
- `last_updated_by_user` (Attributes) The user that last updated the atlas resource policy. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--last_updated_by_user))
- `last_updated_date` (String) Date and time in UTC when the atlas resource policy was last updated.
- `version` (String) A string that identifies the version of the atlas resource policy.

<a id="nestedatt--policies"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policies`

Required:

- `body` (String) A string that defines the permissions for the policy. The syntax used is the Cedar Policy language.

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal character string that identifies the policy.


<a id="nestedatt--created_by_user"></a>
### Nested Schema for `created_by_user`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal character string that identifies a user.
- `name` (String) Human-readable label that describes a user.


<a id="nestedatt--last_updated_by_user"></a>
### Nested Schema for `last_updated_by_user`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal character string that identifies a user.
- `name` (String) Human-readable label that describes a user.
