# Resource: mongodbatlas_stream_connection_failover

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `connection_name` (String) Label that identifies the stream connection name.
- `project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project, also known as `groupId` in the official documentation.
- `region` (String) The connection's region.
- `type` (String) Type of the connection.
- `workspace_name` (String) Label that identifies the stream workspace.

### Optional

- `delete_on_create_timeout` (Boolean) Indicates whether to delete the resource being created if a timeout is reached when waiting for completion. When set to `true` and timeout occurs, it triggers the deletion and returns immediately without waiting for deletion to complete. When set to `false`, the timeout will not trigger resource deletion. If you suspect a transient error when the value is `true`, wait before retrying to allow resource deletion to finish. Default is `true`.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

<!-- polymorphic attributes restructured by docpostprocess -->
The following attributes depend on the value of `type`:

#### `AWSKinesisDataStreams`

Optional:
- `aws` (Attributes) AWS configurations for AWS-based connection types. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--aws))
- `networking` (Attributes) Networking configuration for Streams connections. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networking))

#### `AWSLambda`

Optional:
- `aws` (Attributes) AWS configurations for AWS-based connection types. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--aws))

#### `AzureBlobStorage`

Optional:
- `azure` (Attributes) Azure-specific configuration for the connection. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--azure))
- `public_private_networking` (Attributes) Networking configuration for connections that support `PUBLIC` and `PRIVATE_LINK` access types. For GCP connections, use `PRIVATE_LINK` for GCP Private Service Connect (PSC). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--public_private_networking))

#### `Cluster`

Optional:
- `cluster_name` (String) Name of the cluster configured for this connection.
- `cluster_project_id` (String) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies the project that contains the configured cluster. Required if the ID does not match the project containing the streams workspace. You must first enable the organization setting.
- `db_role_to_execute` (Attributes) The name of a Built in or Custom DB Role to connect to an Atlas Cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--db_role_to_execute))

#### `GCPPubSub`

Optional:
- `gcp` (Attributes) GCP-specific configuration for the connection. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--gcp))
- `public_private_networking` (Attributes) Networking configuration for connections that support `PUBLIC` and `PRIVATE_LINK` access types. For GCP connections, use `PRIVATE_LINK` for GCP Private Service Connect (PSC). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--public_private_networking))

#### `Https`

Optional:
- `headers` (Map of String) A map of key-value pairs that will be passed as headers for the request.
- `url` (String) The URL to be used for the request.

#### `Kafka`

Optional:
- `authentication` (Attributes) User credentials required to connect to a Kafka Cluster. Includes the authentication type, as well as the parameters for that authentication mode. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--authentication))
- `bootstrap_servers` (String) Comma separated list of server addresses.
- `config` (Map of String) A map of Kafka key-value pairs for optional configuration. This is a flat object, and keys can have '.' characters.
- `networking` (Attributes) Networking configuration for Streams connections. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networking))
- `security` (Attributes) Properties for the secure transport connection to Kafka. For SSL, this can include the trusted certificate to use. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--security))

#### `S3`

Optional:
- `aws` (Attributes) AWS configurations for AWS-based connection types. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--aws))
- `networking` (Attributes) Networking configuration for Streams connections. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networking))

#### `SchemaRegistry`

Required:
- `schema_registry_authentication` (Attributes) Authentication configuration for Schema Registry. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--schema_registry_authentication))
- `schema_registry_provider` (String) The Schema Registry provider.
- `schema_registry_urls` (List of String) List of Schema Registry endpoint URLs used by this connection. Each URL must use the http or https scheme and specify a valid host and optional port.

### Read-Only

- `failover_connection_id` (String) Unique identifier of the connection.
- `state` (String) The state of the connection.

<a id="nestedatt--authentication"></a>
### Nested Schema for `authentication`

Optional:

- `client_id` (String) OIDC client identifier for authentication to the Kafka cluster.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) OIDC client secret for authentication to the Kafka cluster.
- `mechanism` (String) Style of authentication. Can be one of PLAIN, SCRAM-256, SCRAM-512, or OAUTHBEARER.
- `method` (String) SASL OAUTHBEARER authentication method. Can only be OIDC currently.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password of the account to connect to the Kafka cluster.
- `sasl_oauthbearer_extensions` (String) SASL OAUTHBEARER extensions parameter for additional OAuth2 configuration.
- `scope` (String) OIDC scope parameter defining the access permissions requested.
- `ssl_certificate` (String) SSL certificate for client authentication to Kafka.
- `ssl_key` (String) SSL key for client authentication to Kafka.
- `ssl_key_password` (String, Sensitive) Password for the SSL key, if it is password protected.
- `token_endpoint_url` (String) OIDC token endpoint URL for obtaining access tokens.
- `username` (String) Username of the account to connect to the Kafka cluster.


<a id="nestedatt--aws"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws`

Required:

- `role_arn` (String) Amazon Resource Name (ARN) that identifies the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Identity and Access Management (IAM) role that MongoDB Cloud assumes when it accesses resources in your AWS account.

Optional:

- `test_bucket` (String) The name of an S3 bucket used to check authorization of the passed-in IAM role ARN.


<a id="nestedatt--azure"></a>
### Nested Schema for `azure`

Optional:

- `region` (String) Azure region where the storage account is located.
- `service_principal_id` (String) Unique ID of the Azure Service Principal that has access to the storage account.
- `storage_account_name` (String) Name of the Azure Storage Account to connect to.


<a id="nestedatt--db_role_to_execute"></a>
### Nested Schema for `db_role_to_execute`

Required:

- `role` (String) The name of the role to use. Can be a built in role or a custom role.
- `type` (String) Type of the DB role. Can be either Built In or Custom.


<a id="nestedatt--gcp"></a>
### Nested Schema for `gcp`

Optional:

- `service_account_id` (String) Email address of the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) service account that Atlas Streams uses to connect to the GCP Pub/Sub resources.


<a id="nestedatt--networking"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networking`

Optional:

- `access` (Attributes) Information about networking access. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networking--access))

<a id="nestedatt--networking--access"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networking.access`

Optional:

- `connection_id` (String) Reserved. Will be used by `PRIVATE_LINK` connection type.
- `name` (String) Reserved. Will be used by `PRIVATE_LINK` connection type.
- `tgw_route_id` (String) Reserved. Will be used by `TRANSIT_GATEWAY` connection type.
- `type` (String) Selected networking type. Either `PUBLIC`, `VPC`, `PRIVATE_LINK`, or `TRANSIT_GATEWAY`. Defaults to `PUBLIC`. For VPC, ensure that VPC peering exists and connectivity has been established between Atlas VPC and the VPC where Kafka cluster is hosted for the connection to function properly. `TRANSIT_GATEWAY` support is coming soon.



<a id="nestedatt--public_private_networking"></a>
### Nested Schema for `public_private_networking`

Optional:

- `access` (Attributes) Information about networking access. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--public_private_networking--access))

<a id="nestedatt--public_private_networking--access"></a>
### Nested Schema for `public_private_networking.access`

Optional:

- `connection_id` (String) The ID of the Private Link connection. Required for `PRIVATE_LINK` type. For GCP connections using Private Service Connect (PSC), this is the PSC connection ID.
- `type` (String) Selected networking type. Either `PUBLIC` or `PRIVATE_LINK`. Defaults to `PUBLIC`. For AWS, Azure, and GCP connections, use `PRIVATE_LINK` for AWS PrivateLink, Azure Private Link, or GCP Private Service Connect (PSC) respectively.



<a id="nestedatt--schema_registry_authentication"></a>
### Nested Schema for `schema_registry_authentication`

Required:

- `type` (String) Authentication type discriminator. Specifies the authentication mechanism for Confluent Schema Registry.

<!-- polymorphic attributes restructured by docpostprocess -->
The following attributes depend on the value of `type`:

#### `USER_INFO`

Required:
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password or Private Key for authentication.
- `username` (String) Username or Public Key for authentication.


<a id="nestedatt--security"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security`

Optional:

- `broker_public_certificate` (String) A trusted, public x509 certificate for connecting to Kafka over SSL.
- `protocol` (String) Describes the transport type. Can be either `SASL_PLAINTEXT`, `SASL_SSL`, or `SSL`.


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
